README.md, before:

# NPS Sentiment Analysis

## Introduction
This project is my solution to annotate sentiments of NPS comments using pre-trained language models.

## Library/Environment
This is not meant to work in one single environment. I switched between two environments (one using Pytorch, one using Tensorflow) to make everything run smoothly.
- Pytorch
- Fastai
- Tensorflow 2.0
- Tensorflow hub

## Results
This is not a fair comparison and please take it only as a reference. I personally like the small model (gnews-swivel) provided by Tensorflow hub as it is very easy to train and still powerful enough to give decent result also it makes deployment much easier.

| Model | Accuracy | Precision | Recall | F1 Score |
| ----- | ----- | ----- | ----- | -----|
| ULMFIT (Fastai) | 0.97 | 0.98 | 0.92 | 0.95 |
| gnews-swivel (TF Hub) | 0.93 | 0.93 | 0.84 | 0.88 |
| nnlm-en-50 (TF Hub) | 0.96 | 0.96 | 0.90 | 0.93 |
| nnlm-en-128 (TF Hub) | 0.96 | 0.94 | 0.93 | 0.94 |
| AutoML (Google) | 0.99 | 0.98 | 0.96 | 0.97|

Note: Google AutoML only tested against half of the entire human labelled dataset and I have to filter out all the **Neutral** predictions by AutoML so this is heavily biased as **Neutral**'s usually are the indecisive cases falling between positive/negative.


## Shoutout
Shoutout to all AA ASL 2018 members!

## Disclaimer
This project is not associated with my current employer. Most of the contents here are created during my leisure time to compare results of different ways of doing transfer learning and beat Google AutoML API.

Commit message:

Update a better comparison - Google AutoML

README.md, after:

# NPS Sentiment Analysis

## Introduction
This project is my solution to annotate sentiments of NPS comments using pre-trained language models.

## Library/Environment
This is not meant to work in one single environment. I switched between two environments (one using Pytorch, one using Tensorflow) to make everything run smoothly.
- Pytorch
- Fastai
- Tensorflow 2.0
- Tensorflow hub

## Results
This is not a fair comparison and please take it only as a reference. I personally like the small model (gnews-swivel) provided by Tensorflow hub as it is very easy to train and still powerful enough to give decent result also it makes deployment much easier.

| Model | Accuracy | Precision | Recall | F1 Score |
| ----- | ----- | ----- | ----- | -----|
| ULMFIT (Fastai) | 0.97 | 0.98 | 0.92 | 0.95 |
| gnews-swivel (TF Hub) | 0.93 | 0.93 | 0.84 | 0.88 |
| nnlm-en-50 (TF Hub) | 0.96 | 0.96 | 0.90 | 0.93 |
| nnlm-en-128 (TF Hub) | 0.96 | 0.94 | 0.93 | 0.94 |
| AutoML (Google) | 0.96/0.93 | 0.98/0.81 | 0.87/0.96 | 0.92/0.88 |

Note: Since AutoML splits out `Neutral` on top of `Positive` and `Negative`, so it is very challenging to do unbiased comparison. Hence I took down two values where 1st values are metrics considering `Neutral` to be `Negative` while the 2nd values are metrics considering `Neutral` to be `Positive`. Also, AutoML is used to test against only half of the human labelled dataset.

## Shoutout
Shoutout to all AA ASL 2018 members!

## Disclaimer
This project is not associated with my current employer. This project is solely initiated in attempt to beat Google AutoML.
